DEVLOG:

Week 1:
Wednesday, March 30th: Spent roughly 3 hours researching how I would go about making my original game idea of a single-player card game I had made, into a digital game. After extensive research and attempts to make the game functionally work, I began to realize my scope was much too big for what I wanted to accomplish with this project. Although I would love to make this game a reality, I don't think with my last semester winding down I will be able to give it the vast time dedication I would need to complete.
Friday, April 1st: Spent about 2 hours jotting down ideas of what my project could be. I haven't made my side scroller yet, so I plan on it being something like that. I would also like to attempt animations as I have not done any along with sounds for menu music and during gameplay. I want to make an experience that feels full enough to have the potential to be made into a full-fledged game by the end of its creation.
Monday, April 4th: Spent about 2 hours brainstorming ideas to decide on the theming for the game, with the characters’ motivations, and the conceptual look of the character. The game will be called Turtleboy: Back to School and you will play as the main character Turtleboy, trying to get to school every day. I aim to have a time limit for the players to reach the end of the level, along with creating multiple levels to go through. It will be a 2d side scroller with the ability to jump and possibly enter the turtle shell a limited number of times per level, to provide a challenge and strategy for the players when obstacles come into play. I created the Turtleboy sprite as well, and am quite happy with how it came out.

Week 2:
Tuesday, April 5th: Spent about 1-hour creating sprites for a platform and the school in class. Began to add colliders to both. The platform colliders are for the player to jump from one to the other, and the colliders for the school will be to trigger the next level when touched.
Thursday, April 7th: Spent roughly 1 hour making two new enemy sprites along with two new spike sprites, and added colliders and tags to the objects. 
Spent roughly 2 hours making scripts for some aspects of the game. Created the player movement script to allow for left and right movements, along with jumping. Also created a timer script to display in the upper left-hand corner how much time is left in the level using UI elements before forcing the player to restart when the timer reaches 0.
Spent about 30 minutes making scripts to load the next level scene when the school was reached. Made a script for each school level, but realized I could improve this greatly.
Friday, April 8th: Spent roughly 30 minutes consolidating the levels script loading to a single script dependent on which scene was loaded in, and if the school was reached the next level would load properly.
Monday, April 11th: Spent roughly 2 hours making the game over state where when the time limit reaches zero the game over UI pops up allowing the user to click restart or exit, where restart reloads the current scene, and exit brings the player back to the main menu. Also made it where when the timer reaches zero then the game state is no longer set to active, pausing input from the player being taken in.

Week 3: (Spent most time making game design portfolio this week)
Monday, April 18th: Spent approximately 4 hours putting the pieces together for the spikes and enemies for the levels. When colliding with the enemies the player object is destroyed and the game over screen is displayed. Also implemented is the better jump to allow the player to tap to jump or hold for a slightly longer and higher jump. Made a patrol script that allows the enemies to move on the platforms, and turn when reaching the endpoint of the platform. The fox will be slower than the skunk. Thinking about implementing a different function where an enemy will jump to differentiate between the two enemy types. Changed the scale of Turtleboy to make it more enjoyable to platform, along with making the platforms thinner to provide more room for the player to move around.

Week 4:
Monday, April 25th: Spent at least 7 hours creating the levels for the game and playtesting to see if they felt like they had increased the challenge as the player progressed. Added a new bunny sprite that bounces, allowing the player to jump on top and leap much higher than before. Created the main menu along with the how-to-play section of the game. The only work on the game that needs to be completed is implementing any critique I receive on Tuesday during the playtests, adding animations for the player, adding a jump sound along with background music, creating and adding a background to the game, and editing the font for both the text and buttons to fit the game style of the game.

Week 5:
Tuesday, April 26th: Two people playtested the beta of Turtleboy: Back to School. The criticism of the game was then used when doing my updates on Friday.
Friday, April 29th: Spent about 3 hours finalizing the UI elements of the game and creating the background for the different scenes in the game. Adjusted the spikes collider to feel more accurate. Moved levels around to balance the feeling of progression and difficulty. Made it clear what the bunnies do, and how to properly use them. 
Monday, May 2nd: Final day to make adjustments. Fixed some bugs when building the game like UI and layers of certain sprites. Wrote the report on the game.
